JSX and we're on to core react concepts now
So
again, I remember I watched Pete hunts talk. I don't even remember which conference was that but this would have been
2014 no 2013. I would have watched this in 2013
I was working at reddit and he showed this off and I was like this seems like pretty cool
And then he started writing his HTML and his JavaScript is like I'm out. I like I don't like this
I don't want anything to do with it
Take your demon magic and go away, right? I like it. It didn't make any sense to me
and I was reading the story of like how they ended up creating JSX is they had created react and like they think this is
a good idea, but they had to convince a bunch of hack developers to use it hack is a flavor of PHP or
That might be if not quite totally true, but it's very similar to PHP
And so they hacked together this last-minute
JSX thing to try and convince them and that's like the the PHP developers like all this this is cool
We can use this right and then it turned out to be really popular back with the JavaScript developers as well
And so that's how JSX ended up taking off
It was never intended to be the the core use case for react and yet it still is and now not only does
React use it but like solid JS uses it you can use it with like V or with view and some other things as well
So it really took off
So let me tell you about why I came back around and when someone reframed this for me I again I'm old enough to remember
JavaScript in our HTML where you would click like like an on-click handler and all the JavaScript was just shoved into the HTML
It was gross. It was hard to debug. It was like trying to
Debug minified code. It was like landmines throughout all of your HTML
It was just the worst and I spent a good part of my first job ripping
JavaScript out of HTML and so the inverse sounded just as bad to me is like I don't want HTML my JavaScript, right?
What the reframing that finally got me to
Accept JSX or at least try it out for a longer time
Is we just wrote this right
React create element each one ID main title my website. What is this supposed to end up translating to?
It's supposed to be
This right. We're literally writing code that mimics HTML
Shouldn't we just write the HTML
right instead of trying to mimic it and
When I kind of had that reframe is like, okay that actually makes a lot of sense to me and the quote when I understood like how
JSX is just a very very thin layer on top of JavaScript. It's not really adding
Barely any semantics to JavaScript. I was like, okay, I think I can tolerate this and I have to have a built step anyway
So who cares?
So
This is what our pizza ends up looking like
In fact, let's just go write that so open your app dot JS
Let's actually just create a new file here and call it pizza
dot
JS and then we're gonna add just one more character here X
And we're gonna make our pizza component we're gonna move that out of app dot JS into
Pizza dot JSX
Now if you've watched previous versions of this course
You'll notice that I have gone back and forth several times from using JSX as the extension to just using JS
And let me explain to you why?
Initially we had to call it JSX because the tools required it
Or else it wouldn't transpile from JSX to JavaScript and then famously Dan Abramov who's a well-known JavaScript
Engineer that wasn't read it or starting he was at Facebook
He created redux and now he's at blue sky
He tweeted one time is like why is everyone calling this JSX it's just JavaScript and that caused a massive swing in the
JavaScript community to go back to the other way of just calling it dot JS
And so again, I try and just follow the sea trends
But this particular course of what you'll normally see in the wild
If you're a professional react developer
The reason why it was we're back on JSX now for this course is
Beat requires it beat will not run the JSX transformation unless you call it dot JSX. I
Don't even know if you can configure that away. I didn't really try
So we're back on JSX now
But I hope my point to you is that it's it doesn't matter who cares, right?
Like it's like the dumbest thing to argue about
Just do whatever your tools require and don't think much more about it than that
Okay, so go ahead and copy and paste
I'm gonna just cut this out of here and I'm gonna put this in my pizza file
I'm gonna put an export default pizza at the bottom
And
We're gonna just comment this and I'm just gonna reimplement it with JSX
and
So const pizza equals props
And you're gonna return
I'm gonna suggest here that you put an opening parentheses. I'll tell you why in a second
And you're just gonna start writing your HTML diff
and
We didn't give this a class before but we're gonna give one now but notice we're gonna call it class name
I think that they've gone back and forth that they're gonna get rid of this anyway
The reason why they have you call this class name and not class
Is technically the word class and JavaScript is is reserved right for JavaScript classes
And so they didn't want to collide with that. So they call the class name
Which is actually I mean if you have like a
X equals a new or a document
Get element by ID
Blood you don't have to copy this. I'm just keep proving a point
The way that you would get the class name of X
Would be class names. They went with the actual name of the JavaScript API
That's just where that came from. They didn't make it up, right? Anyway, you'll get used to it, but you do have to call it class
Name instead of class
And your tools will catch that for you, so don't worry too much about it
Okay, and then we're gonna have an h1
Now I could put props dot name here, but what would happen?
It would literally display this the text props dot name, but if I surround it with curly braces
You can put in here any JavaScript expression. And so your question might be what is the JavaScript expression?
It's anything that can go on the right side of an equal sign
so I could put
Right
This hat this right half of it would be an expression right so I can put props dot name dot
To locale uppercase and that that'll work, right?
Okay
Same thing with our paragraph here props dot description
And there you go that is JSX
Pretty straightforward, I think right. I think it's simpler like compare this
With this
I'm gonna say almost certainly unless your brain is broken
Like mine, which is frequently broken
This this is just way easier to read right. This is actually what you mean, right?
This is the the markup you intend to generate. This is mimicking markup that you intend to generate
Okay, any questions about this?
Yeah, I'm a bit curious about the use of the default
It's probably doesn't have a meaningful distinction with a simple app like this
but can you give an example of when you might not want it to be your default export and it's related to the
Module that you're exporting. I kind of don't understand the concept there. Yep
so I have down here export default pizza and
If we go over here we need to import this from the other file, right? So we're gonna say import pizza
From dot pizza, right?
The fact that this has no curly braces around it means that it is the default export of this particular file
Right, so I because I said default you import it over here with no curly braces
Now if I wanted to do it differently
You could say export const pizza equals pizza
Or
I
Forgot exactly what the syntax here because they never do it this way, but you would do something like this
Okay now this is a named export here and so now over here you would import this like this
Now
Why would you ever want to do it one way versus the other when you have named exports now I can do multiple exports here
I can do export const
blah equals
Right
And now I can import two things over here
blah
People have very strong opinions about how you're supposed to do this or not supposed to do this
Some people are like named exports all the time default is an anti-pattern and to those people I say I don't care
I just don't care like it's the dumbest thing to argue about
I'm generally of an opinion that
One file one component. So therefore default exports makes sense to me. It's kind of a reliable pattern for me
Sometimes I'll do something like where I'll you can have both by the way
Which would look like this some of them would be inside of the curly bases some wouldn't be
And I will do this from time to time it actually will look more like this
So I'll have the pizza one from this
and then I'll have like
Test pizza. Well, like I'll have to have like a little like additional logic to be able to test it correctly, right?
And I'll have it do something like that, right?
But generally speaking I'm a one file one component kind of person and this makes a lot of sense to me
One thing I'm gonna call out here is notice that you used to have to do
Import react from react
We don't have to do this anymore
So remember how this gets transpiled?
So remember how this gets transpiled to react dot create element, right? So anywhere that you were doing
React you had to import react even though you weren't directly using it
Luckily the tools got smart enough to say like okay if we see JXX we're gonna import react for you
So not required anymore, but it used to be required
But you might see that in older code bases that haven't updated their
build configurations
You